---
title:    Homework 1 - Manipulating Reality
subtitle: Using Photoshop to manipulate reality
due-date: 2015-02-06
type:  Homework, Photoshop
submission:  Dropbox
---

Though still early in the course, you've learned enough technical skills in order to use Photoshop to alter the reality of a photo.


# Guiding Question

What aspect(s) of your photo are you altering and, more importantly, _why_?  In other words, what do you hope that your altered image conveys to the audience?

Though the technical aspects may be confusing at times, this might actually be the **harder** part of this project!


# Legal Stuff:

Objective 1.1.1- use computing tools and techniques to create artifacts.

---


# Steps to Completion

## 0. Brainstorm

Though you might need to take some pictures and edit them first, at some point in your process you should consider what you want to express with this work.



## 1. Take a picture (or more)

For this project, I would like for you to use at least one photograph that you have taken.

So, your homework before you can do this project is to take some pictures!

You may still use downloaded pictures, but please add a citation, either as a small piece of text on the picture or in a separate document.  **Not providing a citation will result in a loss of points!**


*I have a camera that you may use during class should you require it*


## 2. Create Your Composition

Using Photoshop, create your final work.  We will devote approximately 3 class days to this.

Some tips:

- Experiment!  You might not create your best idea the first time.  Compose several quick rough versions first.
- Once you have your favorite idea, then focus on the craftsmanship
- Save often!
- Save backup copies to Dropbox!
- Save a copy before you make a big change!


## 3. Write a brief statement about your work

You will often see these in museums next to art.  Write a statement (50-100 words) about you and your work:

These are some **suggestions** of topics you may discuss:

- What inspired you?
- What are you trying to express?
- Why is this subject important to you?
- What do you want the viewer to look for?

Do this in the **word processor** of your choice (MS Word, Google Docs, etc).


## 4.  Submit your work

Please submit your FINAL versions on **Friday, Feb. 6** by the end of class.

Please **rename** your files to:

    Lastname-Firstname-HW1

For instance, if your name is Tom Brady, your filenames should be:

    Brady-Tom-HW1.PSD (Photoshop File)
    
    and
    
    Brady-Tom-HW1.DOCX (Statement)


**I will only look for files that are named like this!  If it's not, I will ignore it**


## 4.  Share and Critique

Each person will present their work **to the class**.




# Grading

Creative projects are **very** difficult to grade, but as a guide:

    10%    Followed Instructions
    10%    On Time
    50%    Idea and Originality
    30%    Execution of Idea
    




